Dear Committee on Transportation and Public Way,

Hello, I’m [Name], a car-free resident in Chicago. I have lived without a car in this city since [when] and I rely on walking, cycling, and transit to move around the city. In this comment I will share my experience on transit in this city, and provide two very simple steps you can take to fix our transit system.

I moved to Chicago in [when], and I moved here because of my attraction to the CTA, and the city's bike grid. Where I used to live, I never got to experience such a comprehensive transit system that makes the city so much more accessible without a car.

Now, it seems like CTA leadership is just sitting on their heels while a fantastic service is falling apart, a service that so many people like myself rely on to commute to school, work, to visit friends, or to experience the many amenities our wonderful city has to offer.

What has transpired since then has been a catastrophe. According to data from CTA, we have seen a 34% decline in service in just 4 years on our train system. Our buses have seen similar declines. There are so many people who've bought a bicycle, even a car because the frequencies are so awful that they can't reliably use the service anymore. This is absolutely disgraceful and embarrassing, especially for a city of our size and capability.

We have been given excuses that this is just a natural outcome of Covid. But other North American cities with smaller populations than Chicago have restored or exceeded pre-pandemic service.

Train operator headcount is the top bottleneck for train service at the moment. CTA’s own reporting shows a decline in headcount in the most recent month of reporting in December.

In order to fix the headcount issue, please do two things:

Remove the requirement that a train operator must work the Flagger job before being promoted to the Operator role. Other cities with heavy rail do not have this requirement and it is not required by the FRA.

Promote the Operator role on the CTA homepage. Run advertisements. Market the job as a climate hero. One operator removes thousands of cars from our roads, and they deserve to be celebrated for it!

These are very straight forward issues to solve. Please increase headcount and restore service. Chicago deserves better, and with a few simple actions we can turn this situation around.

Thank you,

[Name]
